README.md, before:

# TMBASIC

## Platforms
TMBASIC is tested on:
- Windows 10 (x64)
- Ubuntu Linux 18.04 (x64, ARM64)
- Android 10 (ARM64) using [Termux](https://termux.com/)

## Build
The build scripts and instructions assume that the host machine is Ubuntu Linux 18+. AWS instance types `c5a.large` (x64) or `c6g.large` (ARM64) are recommended for building.

The build environment runs in a Docker container. Make sure that Docker is installed and that your user has permission to run `docker`. The following command will prepare a fresh AWS Ubuntu instance for building TMBASIC.

```
sudo apt-get update -y && \
    sudo apt-get upgrade -y && \
    sudo apt-get install -y docker.io && \
    sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu && \
    sudo reboot
```

If you want to build ARM64 binaries on an x64 host, install the following prerequisite packages. Skip this step if you only want to build binaries native to your host platform.

```
sudo apt-get install qemu binfmt-support qemu-user-static
```

Clone the TMBASIC git repository, then start the build environment and build using the following commands:
<table><tr><th>Linux (x64)</th><th>Linux (ARM64)</th><th>Windows (x64)</th></tr>
<tr><td><pre>cd build
./linux-x64.sh
make</pre></td><td><pre>cd build
./linux-arm64.sh
make</pre></td><td><pre>cd build
./win-x64.sh
make win</pre></td></tr></table>

## License
TMBASIC is open source software. The following components are included in the TMBASIC development environment and in builds of user programs.

Component | License
-- | --
tmbasic | [MIT license](LICENSE)
boost | [Boost Software License v1.0](ext/boost/LICENSE_1_0.txt)
[immer](https://github.com/arximboldi/immer) | [Boost Software License v1.0](ext/immer/LICENSE)
libstdc++ | [GPL v3](ext/gcc/GPL-3) with [GCC Runtime Library Exception v3.1](ext/gcc/copyright)
[mpdecimal](https://www.bytereef.org/mpdecimal/) | [2-clause BSD license](ext/mpdecimal/LICENSE.txt)
[nameof](https://github.com/Neargye/nameof) | [MIT license](ext/nameof/LICENSE.txt)
ncurses | [Ncurses License](ext/ncurses/COPYING)
[tvision](https://github.com/magiblot/tvision) | [Borland license](ext/tvision/COPYRIGHT) (original code), [MIT license](ext/tvision/COPYRIGHT) (Linux port)

The TMBASIC web-based documentation includes the following additional components.

Component | License
-- | --
notoserif | [SIL OFL 1.1 License](ext/notoserif/OFL.txt)
opensans | [Apache License 2.0](ext/opensans/LICENSE.txt)
oxygenmono | [SIL OFL 1.1 License](ext/oxygenmono/OFL.txt)

Commit message:

First step towards a macOS build
Former-commit-id: 32859141101e0ab33dfa64af0957e23a2968dedd

README.md, after:

# TMBASIC

## Platforms
TMBASIC is tested on:
- Windows 10 (x64)
- Ubuntu Linux 18.04 (x64, ARM64)
- Android 10 (ARM64) using [Termux](https://termux.com/)

## Build - Linux and Windows
The build environment runs in a Docker container. Make sure that Docker is installed and that your user has permission to run `docker`. The following command will prepare a fresh AWS Ubuntu instance for building TMBASIC.

```
sudo apt-get update -y && \
    sudo apt-get upgrade -y && \
    sudo apt-get install -y docker.io && \
    sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu && \
    sudo reboot
```

If you want to build ARM64 binaries on an x64 system, install the following prerequisite packages. Skip this step if you only want to build binaries native to your platform.

```
sudo apt-get install qemu binfmt-support qemu-user-static
```

Clone the TMBASIC git repository, then start the build environment and build using the following commands:
<table><tr><th>Linux (x64)</th><th>Linux (ARM64)</th><th>Windows (x64)</th></tr>
<tr><td><pre>cd build
./linux-x64.sh
make</pre></td><td><pre>cd build
./linux-arm64.sh
make</pre></td><td><pre>cd build
./win-x64.sh
make win</pre></td></tr></table>

## Build - macOS
Install Xcode first.

```
cd build
./mac-x64.sh
cd ..
make mac -j4
```

## License
TMBASIC is open source software. The following components are included in the TMBASIC development environment and in builds of user programs.

Component | License
-- | --
tmbasic | [MIT license](LICENSE)
boost | [Boost Software License v1.0](ext/boost/LICENSE_1_0.txt)
[immer](https://github.com/arximboldi/immer) | [Boost Software License v1.0](ext/immer/LICENSE)
libstdc++ | [GPL v3](ext/gcc/GPL-3) with [GCC Runtime Library Exception v3.1](ext/gcc/copyright)
[mpdecimal](https://www.bytereef.org/mpdecimal/) | [2-clause BSD license](ext/mpdecimal/LICENSE.txt)
[nameof](https://github.com/Neargye/nameof) | [MIT license](ext/nameof/LICENSE.txt)
ncurses | [Ncurses License](ext/ncurses/COPYING)
[tvision](https://github.com/magiblot/tvision) | [Borland license](ext/tvision/COPYRIGHT) (original code), [MIT license](ext/tvision/COPYRIGHT) (Linux port)

The TMBASIC web-based documentation includes the following additional components.

Component | License
-- | --
notoserif | [SIL OFL 1.1 License](ext/notoserif/OFL.txt)
opensans | [Apache License 2.0](ext/opensans/LICENSE.txt)
oxygenmono | [SIL OFL 1.1 License](ext/oxygenmono/OFL.txt)
